

MiniWiki


You are building an API for a mini-Wikipedia with only a single article called 'Latest_plane_crash'.
Just after a plane crash happened, there is a surge of API requests for this article from app and desktop users (>20k req/s).
As an approximation for some data massaging, each request for the article in your server needs to recursively calculate fibonacci(34).

At the same time, a lot of editors following the news are scrambling to update the page as details emerge (up to 10 attempted edits/s).
Editing happens by downloading the current revision of the text, modifying it and posting it back to the API.
The article contains HTML, and should be persisted stored as a plain file on disk. Your code will run on a single 12-core server.

Please design and implement a simple server providing this API using an environment of your choice.
Please describe which other resources you'd use in production to handle the request rates mentioned,
and how you'd interact with those resources.


1. First Steps

First, I did the fibonacci function and install mocha to verify that I was doing it correctly.

Second, writing to database, or writing to disk is "slow". In order to make it fast writing to editors we will have to
implement some kind of qeue, so writing requests are going to be queued and processed when possible. But, I have just realized that
in order to update, you need the latest version of the article...

Third, for readers, I will try to keep a memory version of the article (to emulate a cache). But this article will need to
be updated when there is a change. One option is to poll every certain time, but it will waste time and resources. Another option
is to do long polling (leave a connection open) but we have a better option. To keep our local cache updated we are going to use websockets.

Four, in node there is only 1 thread, so a 12 core machine will not be fully used. But, there is a workaround to create
12 node servers in the same machine to use all the power. (http://rowanmanning.com/posts/node-cluster-and-express/)

2. The code

I am using a standard express nodejs directory structure with these differences:

* data: this is where we are going to store the article
* test: mocha test files

And:

* routes/readers.js would be where all the "normal" users should use to read.
* routes/writers.js would be where all the editors should use to read and edit the article.


3. Setup

npm install

If you have problems with dependencies I had to run also:

npm update

4. Test

Run:
node app.js

Wait 2 seconds then on another terminal:
mocha

5. Notes

I wasn't be able to get the cluster working ok with websockets. So I left it with 1 thread.

6. Future Improvements

Probably I will try to use a qeue in the Writers API to spread the message throw all the readers. Also, I will try to
separate the Readers API and the Writers API. Run them in separate servers. Also I will try to use some kind of load testing
to see the overall performance. I am sorry I didn't get the time to deploy it to a Heroku instance and improve some issues
of the code (like the 2 seconds delay to startup).

 THANK YOU!!!


